In this lecture, we are going to talk about generators.
Generators are a special type of function that produces a value little by little, as we need, instead
of returning a finished value.
For example, if I ask a normal function to return the list of numbers from 1 to 5, it will return
a complete finish list with all the numbers inside.
Therefore, that list will occupy a space that will be equal to its size in my computer memory.
But if we ask this to a generator function, instead of returning all the numbers in the list, it will
simply say, okay, fill.
Do you want the numbers?
1 to 5?
Don't worry, I'll take care of it.
But I'm not going to give them all together so as not to take up as much space in your memory.
Instead, I will produce them one by one as you need them.
You may continue with the rest of the code and when you need the next number, I will remember where
we left off and I will produce it.
So if I give it this command and I ask it to give me the first number of the range, the generator function
will remember the recipe it has to use in order to produce each number.
Produce the first of them, give it to me and wait for me to ask for the next one to produce it when
it is needed.
All this instead of creating the whole list at one time.
In this way, what the generating functions do is take care of the space in my computer memory.
Because if I ask a normal function to create the square of each number from 1 to 1 million, that list
will take up a lot of space.
Whereas if I ask a generating function to produce each square as it is needed, its performance will
be much higher in terms of space.
How do we write a generating function?
The main difference is that instead of using the keyword return to return its finished product, we
use yield to produce our series as we need it.
Of course there are many more details and we're going to get into all of it right in Pi Charm right
now to highlight the key difference between a basic function and an object, we're going to include
one example of each concept.
We need a function that returns number four.
Well, in the case of a basic function, we only have to name it e.g. my function and make it return
four and that will be it.
It returns the number we need.
A generator is practically the same because it is defined with death, followed by a name such as my
generator.
If it requires arguments, we add brackets.
But instead of using the word return, we use the key word yield and we add number four.
This is quite similar, and yet there's another important difference.
On the one hand, return produces and returns number four, but on the other hand, my generator produces
the number when we ask for it.
So let's see this on screen.
If we print my function and my generator.
And we execute it.
We'll see.
Number four as a result of printing my function.
But my generator hasn't produced number four.
It's just showing us that there's an existing generator object located here.
A generator hasn't produced them before since we haven't asked for it.
To do so will store our generator in a variable named G, which will be equal to my generator.
Now we'll print adding the keyword next and g in brackets.
This means I want to print the next G.
So if we print this, we see number four because next allows us to access my generator and command it
to produce the next number in a series of numbers that you must produce.
In this case, we only have one number.
So yield remembers where it left off.
So if we required it to return the next number, it would do it.
In this case, there's no next number as there's only four.
Therefore, if we require the next number, we'll get an error message.
Reading.
Stop iteration.
There was one number and it already used it.
Now we'll cite a more complex example.
Suppose I need this function to return a list of numbers from 1 to 4 that are all multiplied by ten.
In the case of a basic function, we'd have to create an empty list.
Then we'd have to start a four loop for each number in range 1 to 5.
And finally we'd add that number to the list multiplied by ten.
This would create the list.
We'd just be missing return so that this returns the list and that would be the whole function.
So we'll do the same.
But using a generator, which will be easier.
We don't need to create the list since we're not producing the complete list and we'll use a for loop
for each number in range 1 to 5, basically the same as before.
And this loop should produce yield that number multiplied by ten.
So that's it.
Not only is this more practical in terms of code, since we only use two lines of code instead of four,
but it's also practical in terms of memory space because our generator doesn't produce the four numbers
multiplied by ten.
It remembers where it stops in order to return the numbers as we ask for them.
So look at this.
We'll print the function first and then the generator.
After that, we'll store the latter in a variable and will require it to return the first two numbers.
So let's execute this.
Here we have the whole list, which is my function, and we also have my generator number ten, which
the first number produced by my generator and number 20, which is the next number.
So this should be followed by 30 and 40.
But those numbers don't exist.
They're not taking up memory space.
In contrast, my function is taking up space with the numbers from the list.
So if I require it to print the next G here, it will return number 30, starting to take up space.
So now we'll print two more G to see what happens.
Well, it printed ten, 20, 30 and 40, but then it says, Hey, I don't have any numbers left and
the iteration stops.
This allows us to understand generators better.
It basically produced results as we ask for them.
Okay, now we'll draw another example.
First, let's delete this, which will give us a clear picture of generators.
Let's define my generator again.
No arguments needed.
And now we'll do something that differentiates it from basic functions in basic functions when return
is executed.
It means there's no more code to run.
In the case of generators, we can add several fields, and this won't interrupt the execution.
So let's create a variable named X that's equal to one, and we'll add X so that it can be produced
when we ask for it.
Then we'll call the x variable again, but now we'll add plus equals one will increase a value and we'll
also produce X again.
Now we'll do the same once again, x plus equals one x.
This is our generator function.
So let's get out of here and create a variable which contains my generator.
This variable will be named G and will be equal to my generator.
Now we'll print the first three values produced by G.
And this might surprise you.
Let's print those three values.
Execute, and we'll see.
It produced one, two and three.
The first next g printed this yield x whose value was one, therefore it printed one.
Then our generator stopped since we didn't ask for anything.
The generator continued with the next yield in order to return a new result, which was two then did
the same until reaching three.
So the generator doesn't interrupt its execution, as in the case of basic functions, but it stops
here.
It says, okay, I remember where we were.
I'll give you the next result when you come back.
The interesting part is that you can add anything you want here.
Let's add something simple like Hello World.
There could be anything such as functions, modules, and so on.
Let's make it print the next G.
This won't interrupt the execution.
The generator will start right where it left off and the generator function says, okay, Ferdie, I'll
give you the next number when you get back.
I don't need to produce this result in advance so I won't take up memory space or anything.
I remember where I left off and you just ask for a number and I'll produce it on the spot.
So this is the basis of generators.
If you want to delve deeper into them, download the attachment documents or go to the official ones
and do the exercises.
So we'll see each other in the next lesson.